# Architectural Review Reflection
##### Software Design, Spring 2018
##### Anna Griffin and Luis F. Zuniga


## Feedback and decisions
#### Based upon your notes from the technical review, synthesize the feedback you received addressing your key questions. How do you plan to incorporate it going forward? What new questions did you generate?

We received a lot of really useful feedback from the architectural review. We started out by acknowledging that there are already a lot of productivity apps out there and asked people which ones they were familiar with and what features stood out to them the most. We discovered from our survey that many people have event organizer apps such as calendars and to-do lists which they use on a fairly regular basis. Simplicity and ease of use seemed to be aspects of the app that people cared the most about. A feature that stood out was a notification and reminder system. Users found notification systems useful because it forced them to stay on track by reminding them of something they needed to do without them having to do any additional work.

Additionally, the responses we received to the question about whether or not a visualization of time would be useful or beneficial were enlightening. There was a general trend of interest in seeing how one spends their time. This group of people was split into two. One portion liked reviewing how they spent their time in the past while others said that they would benefit from being able to review how they’ll spend their time in the future. Both seem to be fairly similar in that they want to reflect on and change their time habits, but the main differentiator is one approach is proactive and the other is reactive.

While there was positive feedback regarding the usefulness of our idea, it was pointed out often that a simple and easy user design is essential for this type of product. Going forward we will make sure that this is at the root of our visual and user interaction design. The feedback also brought to our attention the usefulness of reminders and relevant notifications which is something we had not thought to consider before. Also, as we continue to make progress on getting the bare essential functions of the app to work, we will strive to figure out ways to display the data in a visual way that is easy to digest. Users do not want to spend time trying to figure out complicated features or trying to make sense of numbers and data, rather something that can be looked at and interpreted immediately would be of most use. In summary, the feedback we received will heavily affect how we design the interactive portion of our web app so that we can optimize the user experience.

One question that developed after this review is how are we going to visualize the time spent by the user. We are somewhat limited to the amount of data that the user is willing to input. It is unrealistic for users to log every activity since it is a hassle and consumes time rather than saves it, yet we want to also be able to create a holistic display of the time they’ve spent on various activities. In addition, we are also now curious about the limits and capabilities of Flask. We have been working with it a little bit as we switch between trying functions in python and then transferring them to the Flask file.


## Review process reflection
#### How did the review go? Did you get answers to your key questions? Did you provide too much/too little context for your audience? Did you stick closely to your planned agenda, or did you discover new things during the discussion that made you change your plans? What could you do next time to have an even more effective technical review?

Overall, the architectural review went well. Our key questions were answered through interaction with the audience during the review and the results of the survey. Throughout the presentation, there seemed to be indication that the audience did not have a clear understanding of the product we are trying to create. This miscommunication may have cost us some valuable feedback or confirmation of ideas.

We got sidetracked a bit when we started asking the audience questions. We never explicitly got to the last three steps, but when we started taking questions, feedback emerged that addressed some of the concerns that the steps sought to address. However, some feedback was irrelevant and could have been avoided if we had more clearly communicated our project goals to the audience.

For the next technical review, we hope to be able to show a more complete product and communicate the goals we have for our product so that feedback is more relevant. We plan to have more effective audience interaction by asking questions about feedback that we feel is extremely relevant. Ideally, our steps for the next review will be written in such a form that they can be used as a fallback for when something derails the presentation (like unexpected audience feedback). Stagnation of the presentation is what we want to avoid.
