# Architectural Review 2 Reflection
##### Software Design, Spring 2018
##### Anna Griffin and Luis F. Zuniga


## Feedback and decisions
#### Based upon your notes from the technical review, synthesize the feedback you received addressing your key questions. How do you plan to incorporate it going forward? What new questions did you generate?

We found this architectural review to be very useful, once again, and it is helping to pave the way for the direction our project is going. In this feedback, we asked more technical questions since we are a decent way into the project now and have more programming decisions we have to make. One important  topic area we inquired about was security. We have played a little bit around with Werkzeug and have thus far created hashed passwords. It seems like there are endless possibilities of ways in which we could go about securing our webapp; however, the general feedback suggested it was not necessary to go to extreme measures trying to secure our app and the lengths to which we have gone seem sufficient for the scope of our project.
In addition, we are getting to a point in our project where we are designing the layout and navigation of the website. We are having to make decisions about how we want the user to interact with our app and thus, thought it would be beneficial to ask for feedback regarding the UI. One helpful piece of feedback we received was to make sure that it was simple easy to enter and log how a user's time is spent. This makes a lot of sense because we don’t want the use of this app to consume users’ time and we will definitely keep this mind when as we are trying to make decisions the layout of the interface. Also, regarding the visualization aspect of our app, we are limited by the amount of data our users are willing to take the time to put in. In other words, if the user logged every event they took part in, we could have a complete 168 hour time break up of how the split it. It seems as though getting users to log simple activities they in which they participate in throughout the week might be somewhat of a challenge. Due to this, we will have to build our visualization around that data. Based on the feedback, we think that showing the progress for individual events would be the best use of the data we have and possibly providing some additional information or reminders by taking the progress recorded and portion of time left in the interval into account.
The last area of uncertainty we touched upon was our database. At the time of the review, we had two tables, a username/password table and an activity/time table. We were having a hard time keeping track of all of the activities while making sure we linked the user to each one. After listening to what our reviews had to say, it has been pointed out to us that it seems a little redundant to have an activities id. The reason why we had this in the first place was to keep track of all of the activities associated with each user. We now realize that the activity name is enough information to make it unique in comparison to the other activities and this information is sufficient when trying to identify a specific activity. It was helpful to have an additional sets of eyes on our problem so that the flaws could be pointed out and we could discover the reason behind our problem. To address this problem, our plan now is to get rid of the redundant column in the table and hopefully that will make accessing the users, activities, and progress times easier.
This review helped us gain clarity for our next steps, yet there are a couple questions that it generated. First, we are now wondering how we should go about getting the information from the database tables so that we can display it on the dashboard. We are also starting to look into web development and have a few brewing questions about making the website accessible from computers other than the local one using something like heroku.  


## Review process reflection
#### How did the review go? Did you get answers to your key questions? Did you provide too much/too little context for your audience? Did you stick closely to your planned agenda, or did you discover new things during the discussion that made you change your plans? What could you do next time to have an even more effective technical review?

For the most part, we received valuable feedback from this architectural review. We felt as though we got less feedback from the last one, however, mainly because only a portion of the class was present. We acknowledge that we spent a majority of the time presenting and should have structured more on a discussion flow throughout the whole time we were presenting. However, the project still seems to be doing well in terms of being on the path to completion. The methods that we are pursuing for the project have small problems, if at all, and a multitude of resources.

Presentation-wise, there was some room for improvement. At one point, Luis responded to a suggestion from the audience with a reason that was not valid. This situation could have been handled with more finesse. For example, he could have asked the audience member to elaborate and evolve the suggestion into a conversation on what other implemented methods might have hidden redundancies. Ana, on the other hand, could have used a bit more confidence in her speaking. She knows a lot about the project, but seemed shy about saying something incorrect. Sometimes, the volume in her voice would die halfway through the sentence. Both suffered a bit from sentences that trailed off. It would have benefited the presentation had thought been concluded more concretely.

With that said, the presentation peripherals were much better prepared. There were more visual representations of what had been done and what the final product should look like. Using the images, it seemed as though the audience better understood our goal for the product.

Every key question seemed to have been answered to some extent. The advice was given that each event object could be stored as a row within a table. The sign-in is well enough as it currently is, for the purposes of this project. Fort Knox safety is not required since more than likely there will be no sensitive information kept on this database. The appeal of this interface will be simplicity, so an overabundance of graphs may prove detrimental to the point of the webapp. Redundancies in the code were also a topic of conversation.

Next time, we hope to improve on our individual shortcomings and continue creating peripherals for the presentation. We will also strive to make the Q&A portion of the presentation more of a conversation between presenter and audience. 
